So here's a, simple example of a S3 class
and method.
So in the, in the top I'm generating some
random, normal data.
And, I'm calculating the mean.
So here the mean is -0.0307.
So that's not particularly complicated.
But here's a lot of stuff going on behind
the scenes.
And so, first of all the class of x, which
is this random normal vector, is numeric.
So I called the mean, which is a generic
function on this numeric vector,
it will search to see if there's a
specific mean method for numeric objects.
But there is no as it turns out there is
no
method for a numeric object, so we'll call
the default function.
For mean, which calculates you know, the
sum of
all the elements, and divides by the
length the vector.
So you can look at the default method for
the mean function by using
the get SE method function, and you can
see that there are other arguments.
There's this trim argument, and a .rm, and
as you go through,
the function, you can see that it checks a
number of things.
It look, if you're doing a trimmed mean,
it takes care of that first.
And then, and then ultimately at the very
bottom there, it calls
some internal C code that actually
calculates the meme for efficiency
purposes.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So that's sort of.
The meme is a simple example here.
Is, is.
And as, a slightly more complicated
example I've
generated some, random data in a data
frame now.
And I'm S applying The mean function over
the data frame.
So one of the important things to known
about data-frames
is, that each column could potentially be
of a different class.
So you could have the first column be
numeric like we have here
and then the second column be integer so
when we add supply over the
columns and we call the mean function for
each column the mean will, will
protect the class of that column and see
if there is an appropriate method.
So for the first column it's numeric It
will check for
a numeric method, there isn't one, so it
will call the default.
And then the second column is actually
integer, so it will check for an integer
method, again there's no integer method,
so it
will call the default for that column too.
So, for, if you have a large data frame
and every column, is a, is a slightly, is
a
different class, the mean function will
check each column
to see if there's an appropriate method
for that class.
So in some cases it's possible to call
the, a method directly, so
you may suffer some S3 methods are visible
to the user, so you make.
So, for example the mean.default function,
is you can
possible to call that directly without
calling the generic function.
But in general the rule is you should
never call methods directly.
You should always call the generic
function and
let the, the appropriate message be
dispatched automatically.
And this, this results in cleaner code,
And and it's slightly more robust.
That way the name of the, of the method
switches so if it
changes a little bit you won't have to
worry about the underlining details.
With the S4 system this isn't a problem
because you
cannot call the methods directly for the
most part at all.
So one last method, example for an S3
Class Method so here is the plot function.
And again I'm generating some random
normal data so when I
plot it again it looks for a numeric
method for plot.
And since there isn't one it just calls
the default method for
plot, and it makes a little scatter plot,
as you probably would've expect.
However, this is a slight variation.
I'm generating some random normal data,
and then I'm converting, it into a time
series object, so I use the as.ts function
to convert it into a time series.
Now, you'll notice I call plot, I call
plot the exactly
the same way as I called it in the
previous slide.
But now you can see the plot is totally
different.
Instead of a plot with a bunch of circles
on it it actually creates
a kind of type series kind of plot where
all the, the lines are connected.
And also you'll notice on the x axis,
there's a label on it for, called time,
which is different from the x axis that
was called for the default function in
plot.
So here you can see that there is a
special plotting method for ts objects Or
time series objects.
And that plotting method is actually being
called here and not the default method.
So, if you want to write new methods for
new classes, if you often create a new
class, if you represent a new data type,
you'll
probably end up writing methods for
printing or showing.
You'll probably, may write a method for
summary.
You'll often, you'll write a method for
plotting because there
won't be a plot method for a new type of
data.
And so there are a couple, there are
basic, two basic
ways that you can extend R with the
classes and method system.
You can write a new, you can create a new
class and then write a method for an
existing generic function
like Print or Plot Or you can write new
generic
functions, and new methods for those
generics for your new class.
So, for the rest of this lecture, I'm
going to talk about S4 classes.
And, and so, one of these questions, is,
you
know, why would you want to create a new
class?
Right.
So what's wrong with the vector in lists,
and numerics and integers and logicals, et
cetera.
While it's possible to survive on just the
basic data types often it's easier
and more compact to think at a higher
level about, more complex data types so,
for example, you might want to represent
new types of data like gene expression
data Spacial temporal data, hierarchical
datas that
you might want to represent a sparse
matrix.
These are all data types that don't exist
in r.
And so, you have to create a new class to
represent them.
There are often new concepts that haven't
been thought of yet.
So, if you can think of, you know, there's
a linear model type of
class, but you think of point process
model is a different kind of class.
Mixed effects model is another type.
Things like that that haven't been thought
of
that haven't been kind of implemented yet
in R.
And also you might want to hide certain
implementation details from teh user.
And so you, you may be able to represent a
new type of data using lists.
And vectors.
But then there maybe a lot of ugly details
that are exposed
to the user that you would rather not, the
user know about.
And so, And.
And one thing to, to emphasize, that when
I say creating a new data,
type I don't mean, necessarily mean that
the data type has never been seen before.
All I mean is that it's not known to R
and R doesn't have any special handling
for those data types.
Types.
So, creating a new class is done with the
set class function.
At the very minimum you can get away with
just specifying the name of the new class,
but often
when you specify a new class there will be
data elements associated with this class,
those are called slots.
You can define methods For this class
using the set method function.
So, at a loose level, you can think of a
class as like a list.
Every class has a bunch of slots.
So, these are kind of like elements of a
list.
But each slot, it's a little bit more
specific,
because each slot is an object of a
certain class.
So you can't just put arbitrary data into
any slot of a class.
You have to put the specific type of data,
into each slot of a class.
So, for example, here I have a simple
example of creating
a polygon class, so there's no polygon,
data object in r.
So there, you can think of a variety
of ways in which you might represent
polygon data.
So, you can think of a polygon, as a set
of vertices, and a set of
or it's just a set of vertices and
in thinking you can have lines connecting
the vertices.
So here I'm creating a polygon class.
And in the representation, I I create two
slots.
One is called x, which contains the x
coordinates of all of the vertices.
.
And then another slot is called y, and
that contains the y coordinates for all
the vertices.
You can see that, so I've specified that
the x and the y slots are to be numeric.
So if I create a polygon object the x
and the y slots have, have to have numeric
data.
They can't have characters, they can't
have integers, etcetera.
So now I've created a polygon class the
next thing I probably want to
do is create a method for, for example,
for plotting this, a polygon.
And so when you call the set method
function you have to specify generic
functions such as plot, and then you have
to specify something called a signature.
And so the signature is basically the, the
set of
classes on which the generic on which the
method will operate.
So in this, case I'm going to want to
create a method for the plot generic
function.
The signature is basically going to be
this Polygon Class that I just created.
So here's my method for the plot generic
called the set method function.
The first argument is the name of the
generic, and the second argument is the
signature, in this case, it's polygon and
so you can see in this function it
takes an X and a Y argument and then the
dot, dot, dot is for
kind of other arguments And so you can see
that within so the x argument.
Is just the polygon object.
The y argument is missing there's no y
argument here.
And so I can see that within the function
I actually called plot again.
Right so here I'm creating a method for
the polygon object.
And within the method I actually call plot
again.
But that's going to be the default method
for plot.
Because I'm just plotting some numeric
vectors in that case.
So what this function does is it plots the
vertices.
And then it sits, to set up the plotting
window.
And it kind of wraps the vertices around
themselves so that they kind of connect.
And then it uses the lines functions to to
connect, connect, the dots.
And then after that, it makes my little
polygon here.
And so that's the plotting method for
polygon objects.
I know, notice that I, the plot, since,
since plot already existed
as a generic function, I didn't have to
create a new generic function.
And notice that when I want to access the
slots
of an object in an s4 class, I use the at
symbol to so it's kind of like a list but
instead of using the dollar sign I use the
at symbol.
So after I call the set method function,
if I call
show methods on plot you can see that the
the polygon method
has been added to the list here and then
in addition to
the polygon method there is any method
which is the default method.
So here I am creating.
I'm using the new function to create a
polygon, an object from the polygon class.
I create the x vertices and I create the y
vertices and now
when I call plot on it you can see that it
doesn't just
call the default plot method, it actually
calls my method that I just
created and you can see it draws this
little triangle by connecting the dots.
So, that's a very simple example on how to
develop, create a new class and develop
some new methods.
It's a in general developing classes and
methods is
a very powerful way to extend the
functionality of R.
And so just, so just to summarize, their
classes define new data
type so they, they, they allow R to
represent new types of data.
Methods extend generic functions to, to
specify the behavior
of generic functions on these new classes
that he developed.
And as you develop these new data types
and these
new concepts and make a familiar to R, the
classes and
methods give you a way to develop kind of
an easier
interface for users to kind of interact
with new types of data.
And so it's really a handy way to
kind of create new ,to allow users to
interact with
new kinds of data without, without having
to
get bogged down, a lot of the
implementation details.
And one of the most popular ways to kind
of make
new classes and methods available to users
is through R packages.
And so, most commonly you'll see these
kinds of things embedded within an R
package.